Oh cereal it's the best non breakfast
nutrition for your soul I'm talking of
course about the most popular podcast in
the history of podcasts cereal is a new
series that goes in-depth into one story
per season the first season centers
around the case of a non Sayyad who was
charged with murdering his ex-girlfriend
Haman Lee in 1999 in Baltimore County
nearly 15 years later the story got
picked up by journalist Sarah Koenig who
decided to launch an investigation of
her own into really went down her story
telling each week is gripping if not
brilliant and if you don't believe me
just look at how insanely popular cereal
is you've got a podcast about the
podcast tons of fan tweets and an entire
subreddit page where cereal diehards
post their own theories about the case
kanan even made it to the Colbert show
you're my favorite guest of all time yep
serials made Nancy Drew's out of all of
us but beyond that it's given us a rare
inside glimpse into the criminal justice
system and its many flaws perhaps the
biggest lesson is that when it comes to
law enforcement getting a conviction the
job of the prosecutor is more important
than getting the truth
in serial Adnan State is determined
almost exclusively by the testimony of
his casual friend Jay Jay admits not
just to knowing that Adnan killed hey
but that he himself helped move Hayes
body deal goes to trial all I can see is
like he's lives all blue and she's like
penciled up in the back of the trunk and
she's dead seems pretty damning right
but Jay doesn't spend a single day in
jail and his testimony which is filled
with discrepancies up until the trial
date is used by the prosecution to build
the entire case against Adnan and no
point as DNA evidence even looked at the
prosecution gets the testimony they need
to convict and Jay gets a plea bargain
buying him a get-out-of-jail-free card
by the way the jury in ED nons trial
didn't even know that Jay would not be
receiving any prison time and that
speaks to how crafty lawyers can be in
shaping what they want a jury to know
juries are told to leave their biases at
the door but lawyers will often share
information that plays on those very
biases take race and religion for
example Adnan is Pakistani and Muslim
even though he was born and raised in
the US the prosecution repeat
we brought up his background at times of
false information there is a pattern in
the United States of America where young
Pakistan males have been jilted have
committed murder and have fled to
Pakistan
so can jurors really not factor in
cultural biases maybe not I'm not sure
how the culture is over there how they
treat their women but I know some
cultures women are second-class citizens
and maybe that's what it was I don't
know he just wanted control and she
wouldn't give it to him on top of that
we see how jurors end up considering
things they're instructed by the judge
to ignore in serial it's the fact that
Adnan didn't testify which is not only
pretty standard for defendants but a
constitutional right in the US legal
system despite that here's how one juror
saw it if you're a defendant all right
you know why would you not get up there
and defend yourself and try to prove
that the state is wrong that you weren't
there that you're not guilty we were
trying to be so open-minded
it was just like get up there and say
something
cereal shows us that maybe jurors don't
really know how the justice system works
the legal system is built on having to
prove guilt beyond reasonable doubt not
on having to prove innocence but if we
could say for sure that Adnan is guilty
beyond reasonable doubt with the serial
podcast even exists and what's made
millions download serial and obsessively
listen to it week after week is it just
that Adnan say his story is riveting or
is it that the podcast has left many
feeling the same way the criminal
justice system does unsatisfied wanting
answers and wanting justice one thing's
for sure radio has made a comeback
you